Source: http://www2.matrix.msu.edu/2012/01/job-assistant-director/

Job: Assistant Director
MATRIX: The Center for the Humane Arts, Letters, and Social Sciences is seeking an experienced, creative, and talented individual to fill the position of Assistant Director.

The Assistant Director will be primarily responsible for directly overseeing MATRIX’s project infrastructure. This includes managing MATRIX’s development team (programmers, web designers, graduate assistants, and interns) as well as project development and management (including creation of deadlines for all project deliverables, project and task tracking, and reporting). In addition, the successful candidate will lead the continued development of KORA (kora.matrix.msu.edu). The successful candidate will be expected to work both independently and with MATRIX senior leadership to develop projects, identify and pursue sources of extramural funding, and publish work in appropriate venues.

The successful candidate must have significant experience with web programming, including scripting languages (JavaScript, PHP, Ruby) and with some knowledge of compiled languages (Java, C++). Ability to work in a Unix/Linux based server environment is required, and preference will be given to candidates with database, XML, and web services expertise. Strong demonstrated organizational and project management skills as well as excellent communication abilities are mandatory. A background in digital humanities, informatics, information science, computer science, library science, or cultural heritage (especially archaeology, history, classics, or museum studies) is especially desirable. Bachelor’s degree required; MA, MLS, MIS, or Ph.D. preferred.

The Assistant Director is a full-time, 12-month professional staff position at the University. Salary is commensurate with experience. The University also offers a competitive benefits package. Candidates should submit application materials through jobs.msu.edu (Job No. 5746). Review of candidates will begin immediately, and position will remain open until filled. For more information, candidates are encouraged to contact Ethan Watrall via email at watrall@msu.edu

Founded in 1996, MATRIX: The Center for the Humane Arts, Letters, and Social Sciences Online is a globally renowned research center focusing on digital scholarship, the digital humanities, and cultural heritage informatics. MATRIX enjoys productive collaborations with numerous campus units, including the MSU Library, University Archives and Special Collections, the MSU Museum, The Department of Anthropology, the Department of History, African Studies Center, The WIDE Center, and The Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Beyond MSU, MATRIX has extremely strong ties with world class museums, archives, libraries, and cultural heritage institutions both nationally and internationally.

Michigan State University actively subscribes to a policy of equal employment opportunity and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant because of race, age, gender, color, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, religion, national origin, or political affiliation. Women and minorities are strongly encouraged to apply.