Source: http://www.bogost.com/blog/academic_professional_job_open.shtml

Academic Professional—Assistant to Graduate Program in Digital Media

The School of Literature, Communication, and Culture at Georgia Tech seeks an Academic Professional to serve as Assistant to the Graduate Program in Digital Media. This individual will provide administrative support to the program and Graduate Director at our Atlanta campus, oversee the operation of the program offices, provide student guidance, and assist program faculty in the management of student and academic affairs. Qualified candidates should have a familiarity with (and ideally a professional and/or scholarly background in) current trends in computing and the humanities, and hold at least a masters degree in an applicable field.

Specific duties include but are not limited to:
 Conducting program recruitment and marketing
 Researching, facilitating and managing grants
 Providing student advisement and support
 Managing program assessment
 Facilitating and processing graduate admissions
 Managing program graduate research assistants
 Planning and organizing program events
 Contributing to program curriculum and strategic development
 Planning and scheduling classes
 Managing the program's facilities
 Coordinating program activities with School and College administrators, faculty, and staff

The Assistant to the Graduate Program may also have the opportunity to teach appropriate classes in the Computational Media undergraduate program.

This non-tenure-track position is for 12 months (annually renewable) and begins March 1, 2012. Letters of application should speak to the requirements and projected duties, and should include a resume and names of three references. Address letters of application to Ms. Jocelyn Thomas, Assistant to the Chair, School of Literature, Communication, and Culture, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332-0165. We shall begin reviewing applications immediately; closing date is February 20, 2012. The Georgia Institute of Technology is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.