Source: http://idhmc.tamu.edu/blog/2012/02/07/job-listing-associate-director/

Associate Director

Texas A&M University seeks to hire at the level of Associate or Full Professor a dynamic scholar with an established record in digital humanities research and academic leadership to participate–as Associate Director–in establishing an interdisciplinary Institute for Digital Humanities, Media, and Culture. The Institute has been designated one of eight Texas A&M Initial University Multidisciplinary Research Initiatives (and thus is the recipient of substantial start-up funding). The new appointment would be hired with tenure in an academic department that is closely associated with his or her main research direction, including Texas A&M’s innovative Visualization Department. Possible research areas include but are not limited to Visualization (including information and scientific visualization), Computer Science, Anthropology, Architecture, Digital Rhetorics, Ethics, or Philosophy. The Institute for Digital Humanities, Media, and Culture supports interdisciplinary scholarly and creative work that broadly explores the relationship between computing technologies and culture.  Candidates may be trained in disciplines related to visual culture and media literacy, broadly construed, and globalization and internationalization of culture.   Furthermore, we are interested in scholars who bridge the gap between critical and creative studies as well as those who have an interest in developing grant and funded projects.

The appointee’s responsibilities include working with the Director to initiate and develop an internal research program and facilities (including a new digital humanities laboratory), actively engaging external partners (including other research programs, educational institutions, and leaders in the technology industries, securing supplemental funding from such external agencies as NEH, Mellon, ACLS, and NEA), and teaching. The successful applicant will have an outstanding scholarly or artistic record in digital humanities, digital media, and/or digital culture, including substantial experience in interdisciplinary, collaborative research and in obtaining and administering grant funding.  Classroom teaching expected outside the Institute for Digital Humanities, Media, and Culture, within the successful candidate’s home department.

Texas A&M University already supports a variety of high-profile and emerging projects involving digital humanities and offers a Digital Humanities Certificate (http://idhmc.tamu.edu). The new appointee will help to develop these existing strengths into a top-echelon, interdisciplinary Digital Humanities Institute and program.  A copy of the whitepaper that established this research area is available upon request.

Minorities and women are strongly encouraged to apply. Texas A&M is an AA/EEO employer, is deeply committed to diversity, and responds to the needs of dual-career couples.

Please send a letter of application, a curriculum vitae, and 4-6 recommendation letters.  Applications will be considered until the position is filled.

Professor Laura Mandell
Director, Initiative for Digital Humanities, Media, and Culture
Department of English
4227 TAMU
College Station, TX 77843-4227
mandell@tamu.edu