Source: http://brown.edu/Research/JNBC/images/about_jnbc/Search_PostDoc2012.pdf

The John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage at Brown University invites applications for a postdoctoral fellow in public humanities for the academic year 2012-13. While the nature of an applicant’s specific interests and areas of expertise is left open, these should be complementary to the present makeup of the Center.  Areas of interest: documentary studies, community memory, 
digital public humanities, cultural heritage, cultural policy, and historic preservation.

Applicants must normally have received their Ph.D. from an institution other than Brown within the last five years and have expertise and experience working in the public humanities, and an interest in working with students in an interdisciplinary and public context. In addition to pursuing his or her own projects, the successful candidate will be expected to teach one course per semester, and participate 
actively in the ongoing development of the Center, via organization of reading or working groups or community projects that extend or develop new university community connections.

This will be a one year position, beginning on July 1, 2012, with possibility of extension to a second year. Annual (12-month) salary is $45,000, plus additional taxable salary supplement to allow for single person health and dental coverage from university providers. 
Candidates should send a cv, 2-3 page statement of interests, and potential syllabus to publichumanities@brown.edu with the subject line: "Post-doctoral Fellowship in Public Humanities first and last name".

They should arrange to have three confidential letters of reference sent directly to the above address.  For full consideration, application materials should arrive by March 1, 2012.

The search will remain open until the position is closed or filled.

Brown is an EEO/AA employer. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply.

More information on the John Nicholas Brown Center is available at www.brown.edu/JNBC.