Source: http://www.library.yale.edu/librarynews/2012/02/library_job_opportunity_head_d.html

Head, Digital Projects & Metadata

Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library
Yale University Library
Rank: Librarian I-III

Schedule: Full-time (37.5 hours per week); Standard Work Week (M-F, 8:30-5:00)
Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth in New Haven, Connecticut. Conveniently located between Boston and New York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.

The University and the Library
The Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. It fosters intellectual growth and is a highly valued partner in the teaching and research missions of Yale University and scholarly communities worldwide. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including more than 12.5 million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is engaged in numerous digital initiatives designed to provide access to a full array of scholarly information. Housed in the Sterling Memorial Library and twenty school and departmental libraries, it employs a dynamic, diverse, and innovative staff of over 500who have the opportunity to work with the highest caliber of faculty and students, participate on committees, and are involved in other areas of staff development. For additional information on the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's web site at http://www.library.yale.edu/.

Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library
The Beinecke Library is Yale's principal repository for literary papers and early manuscripts and rare books. In addition to distinguished general collections, the library houses the Osborn Collection, noted for its British and literary and historical manuscripts, and outstanding special collections devoted to American literature, German literature, and Western Americana. The Beinecke’s collections include materials ranging from medieval manuscripts to born-digital electronic records, audio and video. The Beinecke has undertaken an ambitious digitization program and offers online access to over 150,000 images through its Digital Images Online database, as well as access to streaming audio and video, and to a host of online exhibitions and digital projects involving blogs, podcasts, and social-tagging. The Beinecke is currently engaged in bringing intentionality to the development of the Library’s digital resources and projects, and to providing responsive and effective services to online users of the Beinecke’s materials as well as thoughtful integration with other digital efforts at Yale. For additional information about the Beinecke Library, visit http://www.library.yale.edu/beinecke/.

General Purpose
Under the general direction of the Head of Technical Services and working in close collaboration with the Head of Technology and Digital Assets, the Digital Imaging Studio Production Manager, and units across the Beinecke Library, the Head of Digital Projects & Metadata plays a leading role in creating, describing, and delivering digitized resources and in exploring, proposing, and developing innovative tools and services that improve the ability of scholars, students, and educators to make use of existing and emerging digital resources.

Responsibilities
The Head of Digital Projects & Metadata is responsible for the day-to-day management of a variety of digital projects and is responsible for overseeing and creating metadata across a wide range of materials including manuscripts, photographs, ephemera, art objects, maps, prints and drawings, books, and other printed material. The Head of Digital Projects & Metadata provides leadership and technical expertise in the investigation and application of new metadata standards; defines input standards; devises quality control routines; proposes local policies and procedures; maintains and enhances current metadata infrastructure and practices; prepares and evaluates material for digital capture; participates in managing the workflow of the Digital Studio and coordinates and supervises metadata creation by staff, student assistants, and interns; hires and supervises Digital Projects & Metadata staff; provides guidance, training, skill development, and performance evaluation; participates in the formulation of policies and procedures for the Technical Services Department. The Head of Digital Projects & Metadata is a liaison to the Technology and Digital Assets Department and works collaboratively with other Library staff to develop and employ improved interfaces and delivery tools. The Head of Digital Projects & Metadata represents the Beinecke in Yale University Library-wide and nationally, in discussions and committees pertaining to metadata, cataloging standards, and digital initiatives for digital library development at Yale, and is active professionally. May be required to assist with disaster recovery efforts. May be assigned to work on West Campus.

Qualifications 
MLS from an ALA-accredited library science program. Cataloging experience in a research or academic library setting, preferably with special collections materials. Demonstrated familiarity with the basic principles and standards for descriptive cataloging of rare printed materials, archival and manuscript material, or visual materials. Knowledge of established and emerging metadata schemes (Dublin Core, EAD, EAC-CPF,MODS, MARC, VRA Core, CDWA), content standards (AACR2, DCRM, DACS, CCO), and thesauri (LCSH, NAF, AAT, TGM). Bibliographic knowledge of at least one modern Western European language. Excellent technical aptitude with computer applications such as MS Excel and MS Access. Experience with library management systems such as Voyager. Experience with digital reformatting projects; experience with project management tools and techniques; demonstrated ability to use databases and develop functional requirements for them; knowledge of the principles, standards, and technological framework of digital preservation; strong commitment to enhancing service through teamwork and responsiveness to clients and project partners, both internal and external. Ability to excel in a rapidly changing environment. Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively across units, organize and coordinate work, handle multiple projects simultaneously, meet deadlines, and be an effective contributor to a production-oriented, project environment. Excellent written and oral communication skills. Supervisory experience required. One year of professional experience required. For appointment to the rank of Librarian II requires two years of professional experience and professional accomplishments. For appointment to the rank of Librarian III requires five years of professional experience and professional accomplishments.

Salary and Benefits
We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more.

Applications consisting of a cover letter, resume, and the names and contact information of three professional references should be sent by creating an account and applying onlineat http://www.yale.edu/jobs for immediate consideration - the STARS req ID for this position is 15467BR. Please be sure to reference # 15467BR in your cover letter.

Background Check Requirements 
All external candidates for employment will be subject to pre-employment background screening for this position, which may include motor vehicle and credit checks based on the position description and job requirements. Internal candidates may be subject to a motor vehicle or credit check for this position based on the position description and job requirements. All offers are contingent on successful completion of the required background check. 
Please visit http://www.yale.edu/hronline/careers/screening/faqs.html for additional information on the background check requirements and process.

Yale University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. Yale values diversity in its faculty, staff, and students and strongly encourages applications from women and members of underrepresented minority groups.