Source: https://secureweb.mcgill.ca/library/sites/mcgill.ca.library/files/ad-digitalinitiatives-june2011.pdf

POSITION POSTING
Associate Director for Digital Initiatives
Assistant Librarian (tenure track)
Duration: three years, with possibility of renewal. 
Salary: Commensurate with experience.


BACKGROUND
The McGill University Library comprises thirteen branches located on the downtown Montreal and Macdonald campuses as well as central support services, including financial, facilities, human resource management, library technology and collection management services on the downtown campus. The Library has the largest collection in Quebec and is one of Canada’s largest academic libraries.  Over 6 million items are held, with a growing collection of e-journals, e-books and e-theses.  Databases available cover all disciplinary areas.  The Rare Books and Special Collections Division contains significant holdings of heritage manuscript and pictorial materials with specialization in Canadian content and there is an extensive digitization program.   The Library is a member of CARL (Canadian Association of Research Libraries), ARL (Association of Research Libraries) in the United States, OCLC, CREPUQ (Conférence des recteurs et principaux  des universités du Québec) Sous-comité des bibliothèques as well as other cooperative groups. 

The Library provides outstanding collections, access to the world of knowledge excellence in service and an appropriate library environment, all of which are client-focused and responsive to the needs of the McGill community.  The Library maintains traditional library services, implements new information and communication technologies in service delivery and provides information skills/literacy programs to its clients.  The Library pro-actively supports the teaching, learning and research needs of faculty and students to ensure that the University’s strategic mission is accomplished in a rapidly changing environment.  The library takes as its slogan, Information, Innovation, Service, to indicate its focus and works in partnership with many to ensure effective service delivery.  

The University uses leading edge information technology systems in its service delivery and operates in a sophisticated information and communications technology environment.  The Library uses extensive hardware and software solutions in its support of the University’s mission.  It uses the Aleph integrated library management system provided by Ex-Libris, operates the SFX and Digitool software for various other database applications, obtains its cataloguing data from OCLC and other sources and operates across the University in the support and provision of information and communications technology services.  Server provision is undertaken by the University’s Network and Communication Services and other support services are provided to the Library through service level and other agreements by the and Information Technology Services.  Significant digitization projects are in place including materials from the Library’s specialist collections as well as an institutional repository.  A wide array of applications software is maintained for both staff and student use and extensive data services are also provided. An extensive website is maintained to publicize and provide access to the Library’s considerable resources and services.  The position coordinates various initiatives being undertaken across the library.

Information for Prospective Staff
Information about the University and employment at McGill University is at the University’s web site 
(www.mcgill.ca). Information about the McGill Library is available at www.mcgill.ca/library.  Evening 
and weekend work may be required.


DUTY STATEMENT
Associate Director for Digital Initiatives

Provides leadership and coordinates digital library initiatives and programs for all libraries.  Works collaboratively with university faculty and administration to develop and advance digital initiative programs including web-based services, information technologies, and programs supporting the integration of digital collections and digital library services.  Directs the work of librarians, programmers and staff with expertise in development of digital services for public services, cataloging, multimedia, information technology, web development and learning technologies.  Provides support and resources for digital library initiatives emerging from other departments in the library.  Supervises the digital initiatives staff.  Works with University, provincial and national groups to shape the University Library information environment.  Develops goals and objectives, prepares budget requests and participates actively in 
library-wide planning processes.

General Duties may include but are not limited to the following:
 Participate as a member of the senior library management team in McGill Library’s overall planning and policy development in the support of the university’s strategic plan.
 Sets policy for digital initiatives and programs. Participate in the recruitment, selection, deployment, development and evaluation of staff. Provide efficient and effective management and 
leadership of the library technology service to ensure the operational efficiency of day-to-day service 
delivery of approximately 20 librarians and staff.
 Actively participates in local, provincial, national and international efforts to integrate and standardize digital library resources and services.
 Coordinates marketing and promotion of digital library projects and services.
 Gathers data and writes reports as needed for decision and policy making within the library. Monitor performance and quality through the collection of appropriate metrics, benchmarking and the 
application of quality assurance procedures.
 Evaluate arrangements and opportunities for contracting out services and manage service level agreements or contracts with providers of information and communications technology support 
services, hardware and software, ensuring appropriate management of relevant software licenses.
 Participates on Library and University committees dealing with information technology. Collaborates with library staff and university community on digital library initiatives.
 Monitor expenditure against targeted budget forecasts.
 Pursues grants and other outside funding and collaboration opportunities for digital initiatives.
 Ensure appropriate management of the Library’s integrated library management system various database applications, and other   mission critical software and systems within the Library.
 Ensure appropriate information technology hardware, software, facilities, training and support is provided for all library staff and clients.
 Represent the Library and the Dean of Libraries as appropriate, and particularly on information and communications technology committees across the University.
 Ensure fair and equitable treatment of staff, in accordance with the University's policies and procedures.
 Ensure compliance with occupational and workplace health and safety requirements.

Required Qualifications:
 A graduate degree in a related field, e.g. computer science, information science, information technology management, library science. 
 Minimum of 7 years of relevant professional experience in a client-centered service organization, with a minimum of 5 years of management and supervisory experience that demonstrates success in 
managing, motivating and leading complex, technology-driven teams.
 Experience in or demonstrated understanding of academic, research library environments. 
 Substantive knowledge of digital assets and the technical infrastructure required for their life-cycle management, including metadata requirements and preservation. 
 Knowledge of library systems, digital libraries, and digital repositories.
 Familiarity with modern software development methodologies and technologies. 
 Proven ability to manage complex, long-term projects, and flexibility in meeting objectives and implementing creative solutions. 
 Demonstrated service commitment and success in user-centered service delivery.
 Excellent analytical and communication skills. Bilingual English and French highly desired.
 Proven success in collaboration and strategic partnering at a regional level. 
 A strong commitment to diversity and inclusion both in supporting a diverse workforce and serving the needs of a diverse population. 
 Demonstrated awareness of and commitment to equity principles, organizational ethics, and knowledge of occupational health and safety policies and requirements

Preferred Qualifications:
 A doctoral degree in a closely related area with research emphasis on digital libraries.
 More than 5 years of management and supervisory experience that demonstrates success in managing, motivating and leading complex, technology-driven teams in digital initiatives.

Reporting Relationships
The position reports to the Trenholme Dean of Libraries and is a member of the Dean’s Cabinet.  

Application procedure:
Applications should address the above selection criteria, be accompanied by a letter of interest, curriculum vitae, copies of academic transcripts, and the names and addresses of three referees and should be submitted by June 30, 2011 to:

Isabelle Roberge
Senior, HR Advisor
Office of the Dean of Libraries
McGill University
3459 McTavish Street
Montreal, Qc H3A 1Y1
Fax: (514) 398-3561
Email: application.library@mcgill.ca

Interviews will be conducted until position filled.

All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply; however, in accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, priority will be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada. 
McGill University is committed to equity in employment and diversity. It welcomes applications from indigenous peoples, visible minorities, ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, women, persons of minority sexual orientations and gender identities and others who may contribute to further diversification.