Source: http://www.kcl.ac.uk/depsta/pertra/vacancy/external/pers_detail.php?jobindex=11296

Programme Manager e-Content: Digitisation
The Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC)
G7/TEJ/105/12-SC
28/02/2012

Summary	 The JISC (Joint Information Systems Committee) is an exciting and influential organisation that provides leadership in the application of ICT within the further and higher education sectors. It specialises in providing services, advice and innovation funding to encourage the use of technology in teaching and learning, research and administration. 

This is an opportunity to join the JISC Innovation Group and work on cutting edge programmes in digital infrastructure, digitisation and organisation and user technology for universities and colleges.

Details	 
For this post, you should have a knowledge of ICT in education and research, including the use of software and standards; have experience of managing large and complex projects or programmes and be able to use your initiative and work well in creative teams and with a range of stakeholders within higher education, and in some cases commercial suppliers. You should have the enthusiasm and ability to design and implement programmes that will demonstrably achieve positive impact in the sector, considering technical, cultural change, policy and sustainability issues. Knowledge of commissioning processes will be helpful.

The post 'Programme Manager – e-Content: Digitisation' is part of the JISC e-Content Programmes which have a mission to deliver and ensure the use of a wide range of high quality collections for use in education and research, with a view to building and consolidating a UK wide collection. The work is also focussed on building the skills and capacity within universities and other organisations to create and develop the use of digital content and ensure collections are sustainable in the longer term. 

The post holder will be responsible for managing a range of different types of e-content projects taking place in universities and other organisations that are either digitising content or developing existing digital collections to make them more accessible, relevant and discoverable on the web. The approach to programme management is very much about inspiring excellence through innovative practices and helping projects to build networks and share knowledge. The JISC e-Content team also manages the Strategic Content Alliance (SCA) which aims to enable UK public sector bodies and other key organisations to collaborate and coordinate their online activities to make the best use of funds available and to explore common services, infrastructure and approaches.

The post is based within JISC's e-Content innovation team who work to deliver a co-ordinated e-content strategy for the JISC Community, including working closely with JISC Collections and other JISC Services and partners both within and outside the UK.

The post is based at King's College London.

Salary	
The appointment will be made, dependent on relevant qualifications within the Grade 7 scale, currently £38,140 to £45,486 plus £2,323 London Allowance, per annum.

Post duration
This post is offered on a fixed-term contract for one year.

Contact	For an application pack please click on the 'Further details' link below. Alternatively, please email hsrecruit1@kcl.ac.uk. All correspondence should clearly state the job title and reference number G7/TEJ/105/12-SC.