Source: http://www.lib.fsu.edu/files/pdfs/employment/Digital_Archivist.pdf

Florida State University Libraries
Digital Archivist
Assistant or Associate Librarian  
(rank to be based on qualifications)   

The Florida State University Libraries seeks a Digital Archivist to develop, implement, and provide leadership for digital initiatives involving Special Collections materials and services. The Digital Archivist will be creative, dynamic, and articulate and be skilled in digitization, metadata, project and website management, and digital preservation. The Digital Archivist will report to the Associate Dean for Special Collections and Archives.


Responsibilities:  
 Collaborate in planning, creating, and managing digital collections
  Implement quality control procedures
  Prioritize and manage digital production across collections
  Investigate, plan, and manage format conversions and migration
  Investigate and provide leadership in the implementation of appropriate metadata standards
 Oversee Special Collections’ archival and metadata operations and supervise metadata staff and students
 Evaluate, plan, test, and implement migration of legacy finding aids, inventories, accession information, and other relevant documentation into Archon, Special Collections’ archival data
management system
 Develop and provide training to library staff regarding resource description and metadata management.
 Develop an expertise in linked data, semantic web applications, and ontologies for discovery of bibliographic data and information.
 Serve as a metadata consultant to larger library projects/initiatives.
 Serve on a library team to create digital collections workflows and to address improving discovery and access solutions for library users.
 Serve as a leader within and beyond Special Collections on matters of resource description and metadata management.
 Communicate with the Digital Scholarship & Technology Department regarding Special Collections & Digital Collections needs related to digital collections workflow, discovery metadata, etc.  
 Provide leadership in defining preservation and access protocols for born‐digital materials  
 Maintain and expand web applications on the Special Collections Website using standards‐compliant markup, emerging web technologies, and best practices.
 Identify and collaborate with technical partners within the Library and across campus to design and implement creative applications for access and preservation
 Actively promotes use of all the department’s collections by seeking out university faculty and students, historic site and museum personnel, and members of the scholarly community and general public who could benefit from the department’s services.
 Provides instructional classes on campus and makes presentations to non‐university groups  
 Shares responsibility for reference service in Special Collections with other department faculty and staff.


Required Qualifications:
 Master’s degree in library and information science from a program accredited by the American Library Association or other relevant master’s degree
 Demonstrated organizational skills in planning, prioritizing, and achieving goals
 Experience with digital collections architecture and infrastructure.
 Experience developing functional requirements and workflows for programmers building new content management applications and databases.
 Experience in the development and maintenance of web sites.
 Broad understanding of archival and digital technology related activities in an academic research library setting
 Knowledge of emerging trends in digital technologies and archival practice and where they might intersect.
 Knowledge of standards‐based metadata schema, such as EAD, XML, MODS, and METS.
 Knowledge of digital archival and records management principles and practices.
 Knowledge of digital preservation best practices and standards for a variety of formats.
 Knowledge of principles, practices, and trends in archival administration and in historical scholarship, methodology, and the use of sources.
 Ability to think creatively and problem solve.
 Ability to plan, coordinate, and implement effective programs, complex projects, and services
 Ability to communicate effectively in writing and verbally.
 Ability to take initiative and work independently and collaboratively  
 Ability to relate to users at a variety of educational levels.
 Ability to work independently and as a member of a group in a changing environment.
 Record of successful performance of duties in prior job(s).
 Evidence of professional growth and mastery of ASERL competencies relevant to the specific job assignment.


Preferred Qualifications:
 Experience writing, obtaining, and managing grants.
 Experience with Drupal
 Experience with linked data, semantic web applications, ontologies, and RDF.
 Experience in transformation of XML documents using XSLT
 Ability to write scripts and/or other programming skills.
 Experience with metadata issues related to the discovery of academic resources.


Additional Details:  
This is a full‐time, 12‐month non‐tenured faculty appointment. Benefits include 22 days vacation, 13 days sick leave, group medical, dental, and life insurance, an optional retirement program or state retirement, and no state or local income tax. With supervisor’s approval, may qualify for University tuition scholarship for up to six hours credit each semester. A full listing of benefits can be found at http://hr.fsu.edu/index.cfm?page=FacultyStaff_homepage.

Located in beautiful Tallahassee, Florida’s capital city, a growing community with a population of more than 357,000, the Florida State University, a public, coeducational institution of the 11‐member State University System of Florida, has an enrollment of over 40,000 students. The Library system includes ten libraries and a variety of subject based Library Resource Reading Rooms. Campus libraries have combined volume holdings totaling over 3 million volumes. The Library is a member of ARL, ASERL, CRL,OCLC, and Lyrasis. For more information about the Florida State University Libraries, see our home page at: http://www.lib.fsu.edu/


SALARY:  Minimum starting salary ‐ $45,000‐$55,000


Contact:
Policia Clyne, Library Human Resources
Florida State University Libraries  
Tallahassee, FL 32306‐2047  
pclyne@fsu.edu  
Phone: (850) 645‐8404  
Fax: (850) 644‐5016


How To Apply:
If qualified and interested in the position as advertised, please apply through the Florida State University job site at https://jobs.fsu.edu. (Job ID # 33866)

Applicants are required to complete the online application with all applicable information. In one attachment, please include a cover letter with a complete statement of qualifications, a full resume of education and relevant experience, and the names, telephone numbers and e‐mail addresses of at least three persons who are knowledgeable about your qualifications for this position.  

Applications must include work history and all education details (if applicable) even if attaching a resume.  


Equal Employment Opportunity
An Equal Opportunity/Access/Affirmative Action Employer  