Source: http://nscjobs.com/applicants/Central?quickFind=50629

Assistant Professor of Visual and Digital Media

Positing Number: 2009000197
Position Type:	 AC - Academic  
Department:	 School of Liberal Arts and Sciences  

Briefly describe the major purpose of this job:
Nevada State College is a new, rapidly growing four-year college located in metropolitan Las Vegas. We are seeking excellent teacher/scholars to work alongside dedicated faculty in a highly collegial, interdisciplinary environment. Our faculty members enjoy the rare opportunity to shape the college as it continues to grow into a cornerstone of higher education in Southern Nevada. Faculty in the Liberal Arts & Sciences work in a new, state-of-the-art facility on our developing 500-acre campus that features "smart" classrooms, cutting edge biotechnology labs, and a world-class Finance Center. 

The faculty and staff at NSC are committed to superb instruction, impactful scholarship, and the development of innovative curricula. Our academic faculty combine rigorous academic preparation from top doctoral programs with a dedication to new and exemplary methods of instruction and evaluation. Nevada State College faculty also are united and inspired by the opportunity to build curricula, programs, and the college itself. The atmosphere they engender is one of enthusiasm, dedication, and camaraderie.  

The School of Liberal Arts & Sciences at Nevada State College invites applications for a tenure track Assistant Professor in Visual and Digital Media to begin August 2012. The preferred candidate must be able to teach courses in media studies, visual media production, and new media production, focusing on topics in media studies, visual arts and culture, interactive media, and emerging technologies.
 
Minimum Qualifications:
1) A Ph.D. in a Humanities, Social Sciences, or related field such as Media Studies, Communications, Cultural Studies, or Film Studies. Highly competitive candidates who are A.B.D. also may be considered.
2) Evidence of teaching excellence at the college/university level and a demonstrated track record of effectively incorporating technology in the classroom.
3) Ability to teach courses in each of the following areas: Production of New Media, Visual Media Production, and Media Studies. 
4) A commitment to helping NSC develop its Visual Media Program and increasing the number of graduates.
5) Capacity to serve as leader in developing new ways to use technology in the classroom and disseminating this knowledge to other faculty.
6) Evidence of scholarly productivity.

Preferred Qualifications:
1) Evidence of a strong commitment to helping build and expand a newly developed institution.
2) Experience in the production of interactive media, such as mobile apps, interactive movies, social media, and interactive websites. 
3) Incorporation of diversity, social justice, and ethics into teaching.

Posting Date:	 02-17-2012  
Closing Date:	 Open Until Filled
Special Instructions to Applicants:	 Interested applicants should submit a letter of interest, a detailed resume or vitae listing qualifications and experience, and the names, addresses and telephone numbers of three professional references who may be contacted. Applicants are urged to address the above list of qualifications in their letters of interest. Applicants must also submit a teaching portfolio consisting of a statement of teaching philosophy, at least two former course evaluations, and two recent syllabi. Review of applications will begin March 14th and will continue until filled.  
Quicklink for Posting:	 nscjobs.com/applicants/Central?quickFind=50629