Source: http://www.lib.umich.edu/library-human-resources/special-projects-librarian-library-information-technology

Special Projects Librarian, Library Information Technology
(Three Year Term Appointment)

Basic Function and Responsibility:
The Special Projects Librarian assists the Associate University Librarian for Library Information Technology (AUL for LIT) in the coordination of major digital initiatives within the University Library. The Special Projects Librarian works with the AUL for LIT, as well as with key staff, in the delivery and management of digital library content and services, and will assist in the research and development of new library technologies. The Special Projects Librarian will assist in conducting the work of the LIT division. A significant component of this position includes coordination of activities such as digitization, which touch on a variety of LIT units. A high degree of coordination with staff within the Library is required. The Special Projects Librarian coordinates tasks, performs outreach and communication (particularly to other project staff), tracks the progress of projects, and performs a variety of duties as assigned, such as documentation. A specific area of focus currently includes coordinating our implementation of Omeka for the creation and presentation of online exhibits. This may constitute as much as 30% of the Special Project Librarian’s work in the first two years of the appointment and will include overseeing the development and documentation of policies, procedures, and workflows to guide, support, and inform the online exhibit creation process. 

 
Specific responsibilities include:
Project management—50%
 Manage administrative aspects of ongoing large and complex projects; track project work-in-progress by senior staff to ensure that deadlines are met.
 Assist in defining appropriate workflows for projects and assume primary responsibility for documenting them.

Research and related support—25%
 Independently research topics and prepare reports, presentations and/or written materials for use by the AUL for LIT.
 Gather, analyze and synthesize data and generate materials needed to facilitate decision-making.
 Edit and facilitate production of a variety of documents, including letters, special reports and sensitive communications.

General Divisional Support—25%
 Oversee/coordinate LIT web pages, including content, development and maintenance.
 Serve as a key resource for LIT policies and procedures (including generating and updating policies when required).
 Manage the flow of information to and from the AUL; disseminate information on his behalf to internal/external constituencies.
 Assist the AUL in maintaining communications and involvement with senior staff, including serving as liaison to AUL’s senior management staff.

 
Qualifications:
Required
 An ALA-accredited Master’s degree in Library or Information Science; or an equivalent combination of a relevant degree and experience.
 Demonstrated experience with project planning/tracking.
 Demonstrated experience with project communication with a diverse project team, including external partners.
 Experience in working with information resources, document analysis, and implementing resources on the World Wide Web.
 Ability to work independently and to contribute successfully to and function effectively within a team setting.
 Ability to establish measurable goals and objectives and to implement strategies to achieve them.
 Interpersonal skills to work effectively up and down reporting lines as well as with external constituencies.
 Demonstrated oral and written communication skills.
 Strong analytical skills and ability to solve problems creatively and diplomatically.

Preferred:
 Basic web programming experience (e.g., Perl or PHP).
 
BENEFITS, RANK, and SALARY
It is anticipated that the position will be filled at the Assistant Librarian level; final rank and salary are dependent on experience and qualifications. Librarians receive 24 days of vacation a year, 15 days of sick leave a year with provisions for extended benefits, as well as opportunities for professional development and travel.
 
Further information regarding benefits can be found at http://benefits.umich.edu/benefitgroups/faculty.html.
 
RETIREMENT OPTIONS: TIAA-CREF and Fidelity Investments options available.
 
APPLICATION PROCESS
Email a cover letter and CV as attachments to libhumres@umich.edu, addressed to:
 
Jane Havens
Head of Library Human Resources
404 Hatcher Graduate Library North
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1190
 
For further information, call 734-764-2546 between 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M., Monday-Friday. 
 
APPLICATION DEADLINE
Review of applications will begin 3/8/12 and continue until the position is filled.
 
The University of Michigan is a non-discriminatory, affirmative action employer.