Source: http://www.ubc.ca/okanagan/hr/careers/faculty/tenuretrack.html#fccs

Tenure-Track Assistant Professor, Digital Humanities

The Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies at the University of British Columbia’s Okanagan campus invites applications for a tenure-track position in the interdisciplinary field of Digital Humanities. The appointment will be at the level of Assistant Professor and will begin on July 1, 2012. 

The position will include responsibility for the creation and teaching of introductory, upper-level undergraduate, and graduate courses that are interdisciplinary and intersect with the program areas represented in the Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies. Areas of intersection with Digital Humanities would be one or more of the following: Art History and Visual Culture, Languages and Literature (French, German, Japanese, English, Spanish), Interdisciplinary Performance, Visual Art, Creative Writing, and Cultural Studies. Our goal is to expand the programs and increase interdisciplinary research and teaching through the expertise of a Digital Humanities scholar. Teacher-researchers whose focus is on intersectional creative and critical approaches to the arts and humanities through digital technology are especially encouraged to apply. For a full list of our programs please consult the faculty web page: http://www.ubc.ca/okanagan/creativeandcritical/welcome.html 

Candidates must have a PhD or terminal degree in a program area housed in Creative and Critical Studies and clear expertise in Digital Humanities. The successful candidate will have an active scholarly profile (which includes creative, practice-based research), and evidence of teaching experience that employs Interdisciplinary Digital Humanities approaches and scholarship. The successful candidate will be expected to conduct and disseminate research in his/her area of specialization and to engage with the interdisciplinary nature of the Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies. Salary is competitive and commensurate with qualifications and experience. 

The collegial learning environment of the Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies focuses on effective teaching, the integration of research and teaching, and a commitment to developing a locally involved and globally aware community. The Faculty offers both discipline-based and interdisciplinary programs at the undergraduate and graduate level. 

Candidates are asked to submit a letter of application, complete curriculum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, research plan, examples of scholarly and/or artistic research to Dr. Jennifer Gustar, Head, Department of Critical Studies at the following address only: recruitment.fccs@ubc.ca  Candidates should also arrange for three letters of reference to be sent directly to Dr. Gustar at the same address. 

The deadline for applications and letters of reference is March 31, 2012.

UBC hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment equity. All qualified persons are encouraged to apply. UBC is strongly committed to diversity within its community and especially welcomes applications from visible minority group members, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation or gender identity, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of ideas. Canadians and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority.

This appointment is subject to budgetary approval.
