Source: http://hastac.org/opportunities/canada-research-chair-tier-1-digital-media-and-digital-cultures-university-waterloo-on

Canada Research Chair (Tier 1)  

Digital Media and Digital Cultures

The University of Waterloo’s Faculty of Arts is seeking applicants for a unique Tier I Canada Research Chair position. The successful candidate will pursue outstanding research exploring impacts of human and social factors on the design, development, distribution, and/or reception of digital media technologies.  While excelling in his/her own particular field of expertise, the successful candidate will also bring to the position a demonstrated commitment to interdisciplinary, trans-disciplinary and collaborative research, and will articulate an exceptional, long-term research agenda. S/he will develop an exemplary scholarly and creative presence, complement current research and scholarship by faculty and graduate students, and participate in local, national, and international research networks. 

The successful candidate will be a full professor (or equivalent) based in the humanities, social sciences, languages and culture, or fine and performing arts with a proven record of digital/new media research. Solid grounding in digital applications and global business issues is an asset.

Well known for its strengths in math, computer science, and engineering, the University of Waterloo is also home to a thriving Faculty of Arts, which hosts an array of well-funded technology and digital media research groups, including the Games Institute, the Critical Media Lab, the Canadian Centre of Arts and Technology, the Research Lab for Immersive Virtual Environments, and the MARGOT digitization project.  Pursuing his/her own research within this dynamic context, the successful candidate will also play a leading role in coordinating this diverse research talent.  S/he will participate in graduate and/or undergraduate teaching both on Waterloo’s main campus and in one of several digital media-focused programs at the University of Waterloo’s Stratford Campus.

The Chair will be based in a department within the Faculty of Arts, and candidates are encouraged to identify the most appropriate fit.  The Chair will also play a vital role in advancing the research culture at Waterloo’s new Stratford Campus, a hub of digital media education, research, and industry-connected innovation located in the culture-rich community of Stratford, just 130km west of Toronto.  Host of events like the annual Canada 3.0 conference, and home of innovative graduate and undergraduate programs, Waterloo’s Stratford Campus, combined with resources available on Waterloo’s nearby main campus, will provide the successful candidate with a vibrant and forward-thinking working environment within which to pursue her/his research.

This appointment is subject to approval by the CRC program review process.  Eligibility criteria and CRC program information can be found at the following website:  http://www.chairs-chaires.gc.ca.  Benefits associated with such Chairs include teaching release, startup funds, and ongoing research/student support appropriate to the research program.

The anticipated start date for this position is July 1, 2013.  Initial consideration of applications will begin on May 22, 2012; however, applications will continue to be accepted until the position is filled. Applicants should submit a detailed curriculum vitae, a teaching statement and outline of research plans, three examples of scholarly work, and the names of five referees (referees will not be contacted without prior permission of the candidate) to: 

Dr. Bruce Muirhead, Search Committee Chair

Online submission form:  http://artsonline.uwaterloo.ca/OFAS/CRC

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.

The University of Waterloo encourages applications from all qualified individuals, including women, members of visible minorities, native peoples, and persons with disabilities.