Source: https://jobs.dickinson.edu/

Position: Postdoctoral Fellowship in Digital Classics

Posting Number:	 0600480  
Posting Date:	  
Application Review Begin Date:	  
Closing Date:	
Position Type:	 Faculty  
Position Title:	 Postdoctoral Fellowship in Digital Classics  
Working Title:	  
Department:	 Classical Studies  
Division:	 Academic Affairs  
Full-Time/Part-Time:	Faculty  
If Full-Time, please specify:	 Other  
If Part-Time, please specify:	  
Is this a Temporary Position?	  
Pay Grade Level:	 Faculty  

Job Summary/Basic Function:
Applications are invited for a one year postdoctoral fellowship for the 2012-2013 academic year in classical studies and digital humanities at the Department of Classical Studies at Dickinson College. The position calls for teaching one classical studies course per semester (Classical Mythology in the Fall, Ancient Worlds on Film in the Spring). In addition to teaching and pursuing his or her own research, the successful candidate will be expected to make substantive contributions to the ongoing development of the digital project Dickinson College Commentaries. The DCC integrates text, historical data, literary and interpretive perspectives, and graphic, video and audio elements, with the goal of making classical texts richer and more accessible to readers of Latin and Greek. This project is flexible enough that it is anticipated that work on the DCC will likely be complementary with the Fellow's research interests. The Fellow will collaborate with an assigned Dickinson faculty mentor and paid student assistants working on the DCC.  

Qualifications: (Education, experience, special skills)
A PhD in classical studies and a strong interest in and experience with digital humanities are required. The Fellow must normally have received the PhD by August 31, 2012 and within the last four years, and not have held a tenure-track position.  


Required Applicant Documents: Cover Letter, Curriculum Vitae  
Special Instructions to Applicants:	 All candidates should submit a letter of application and a curriculum vitae by April 20, 2012. 

Three letters of reference letters are required and may be uploaded at the time of your application, or you may provide email addresses on the REFERENCE TAB of the job site and we will send request for material to them. However, the three letters of reference must be submitted by the application deadline. Review of applications will begin April 9 and will continue until the position it closed or filled. 

For further information or to apply, write to: Professor Christopher Francese, Chair, Department of Classical Studies, Dickinson College, Carlisle, PA 17013. Email: francese@dickinson.edu. Phone: (717) 245-1202. 
 
EEO statement:	 The College is committed to building a representative and diverse faculty, administrative staff, and student body. We encourage applications from all qualified persons.